# NAME

langmerge.pl - Attempt to merge language tokens with the UPSID language
list.

# SYNOPSIS

    langmerge.pl langs.in token.in langs.out token.out map.out

# DESCRIPTION

The input are two different files:  the UPSID language table that has
been run through the `denul.pl` script, and a language token file that
was generated by the `langtoken.pl` script.

The output are three different files.  The first is a list of language
names from the UPSID language table that had no matching tokens.  The
second is a subset of the input language token file that only records
for those language codes that were not matched to any UPSID record.  The
third is a mapping from UPSID language codes to ISO two-letter language
codes.

Manual adjustment will still be required for the generated mapping.  For
example, ISO has the language "Chinese" but UPSID has the language
"Mandarin".  Manual adjustment is required to link "Mandarin" to
"Chinese".

# AUTHOR

Noah Johnson, `noah.johnson@loupmail.com`

# COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023 Multimedia Data Technology Inc.

MIT License:

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files
(the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
