# NAME

tabulate.pl - Compute phoneme statistics and produce sorted records.

# SYNOPSIS

    tabulate.pl all SEGS.txt sounds.txt LANGS.txt map.txt > output.txt
    tabulate.pl iso SEGS.txt sounds.txt LANGS.txt map.txt > output.txt

# DESCRIPTION

There are five program arguments.

The first program argument is either `all` or `iso`.  If the argument
is `all`, then a full list of all languages in UPSID will be generated.
If the argument is `iso`, then only a subset of the full list will be
generated; specifically, those languages that also have a two-letter
ISO-639-1 code.

The second program argument is the path to the SEGS table from UPSID,
after it has been run through the `denul.pl` script.  The third is the
path to the sound table, generated by the `classify.pl` script.  The
fourth is the path to the LANGS table from UPSID, after it has been run
through the `denul.pl` script.

The fifth program argument is the path to a file where each line has a
UPSID language code and then a two-letter ISO-639-1 language code.  This
mapping can be generated by the `langmerge.pl` script.  However, manual
adjustment of the result should be done before using it with this
script.  Otherwise, for example, the UPSID language "Mandarin" will be
filtered out because `langmerge.pl` fails to automatically connect it
to the ISO-639-1 "Chinese" record.

The output has one record per line.  The first field is the language
name.  The second field is the number of consonant sounds in the
language.  The third field is the number of vowel sounds in the
language.  The fourth field is the ratio of consonant sounds to vowel
sounds.  The list is sorted first in descending order of the ratio and
second by the language name.

# AUTHOR

Noah Johnson, `noah.johnson@loupmail.com`

# COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2023 Multimedia Data Technology Inc.

MIT License:

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files
(the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
